1. What problem does a Version Control System solve?
Ans 1- Version Control System solves the problem of stoping software while adding features. VCS helps in shifting from one Version to another during fixing of bugs and adding new features.

2. Differentiate between Centralized and Distributed VCS.
Ans 2- Centralizes VCS - here, VCS is stored on Server and if server is corrupted then the whole VCS will crash.
       Distributed VCS - Here, VCS stored locally as well as on server. which reduce the lose of VCS in case of corrupted. 

3. What is Git and how is it different from GitHub?
Ans 3- Git- Git is a distributed version control system which stored on server as well as on local computers.
       github is a cloud- based platform which host git repositories.

4. What is a staging area in Git?
Ans 4- staging area stores the information of what will be stored in next commit. It is a file in git directory.

5. What does the .git folder contain?
Ans 5- .git contains all the necessay information of project , it stores the information like commit, history of code.

6. What is git branching and command to create new branch and switching from one to
another branch
Ans 6- git branching is the copy of main branch/master. Developer can make changes in new branch without effecting the main branch. After review the changes in new branch , if company satisfied with changes then it will merge the new branch in master branch.
Commands-
Create new branch - git branch <new branch name>
switching from one to anoher branch - git checkout <branch name in which you want to switch>

7. What is the difference between git reset and git reset --hard?
Ans 7- git reset - it shift the Head to previous commit.
       git reset --hard - it permanently delete the commit. 

8. What is a squash merge, and when would you use it?
Ans 8- Squash merge- Single commit contains the collection of many commits , and this single commit merge with the master branch is known as squash merge.
USE - using squash, history will not pollute. 

9. Explain the use of git rebase with an example scenario.
Ans 9- git rebase creates a linear history by moving feature branch onto main branch
